feat: add getting started page (#6)
OpenIntegrationEngine/docs-website: docs/engine/getting_started.md

# Getting started

> To quickly start with Open Integration Engine, also called OIE in this documentation, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To quickly start with Open Integration Engine™, also called OIE™ in this documentation, 
```

you can use the different installers available on Windows, Mac OS and Linux platforms.

::: tip INFORMATION

> All installers are available at the release page on GitHub, see [GitHub Release](https://github.com/OpenIntegrationEngine/engine/releases)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All installers are available at the releases page on GitHub, see [GitHub Releases](https://github.com/OpenIntegrationEngine/engine/releases)
```

The installers are available in 2 flavors:

* With Java Runtime Environment (JRE) 
* Without JRE
:::

## System requirements

The OIE Server operates as a completely self-contained application and does not depend on any external application server.

### Java requirements

> The Open Integration Engine requires Java 17+ to work

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Open Integration Engine requires Java 17+ to work.
```

::: warning
OIE can work with older versions of Java, but this is not recommended, 
as some extensions may require version 17 to function correctly.
:::

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

We've already said above that it requires Java 17+. I don't think it's necessary to mention in the quick start guide that it's possible to run the server in an unsupported manner.

### Database requirements

> OIE comes with the Derby database by default, which allows you to store configuration and messages, for the purpose of rapid deployment, development and testing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
OIE uses an embedded Apache Derby database by default, which allows you to store configuration and messages, for the purpose of rapid deployment, development and testing.
```

However, during a production deployment, it is recommended to use one of the following database engines:

* PostgreSQL and above
* MySQL 8.0 and above
* MariaDB 10.11 and above
* Oracle 18c and above

> * SQL Server 2019 and above

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For production deployments, it is recommended to use only database versions currently receiving official security and maintenance support from their respective vendors. The following database engines are supported as backends:

* PostgreSQL
* MySQL
* MariaDB
* Oracle
* SQL Server
```

I think we should avoid specifying versions in this documentation, as it can become outdated relatively quickly.

![OIE Installer Welcome Screen](images/gs_macos_install_step_1.png "OIE Installer Welcome Screen")

The welcome screen just resumes the information, just click on `Next`

![OIE Installer License Screen](images/gs_macos_install_step_2.png "OIE Installer License Screen")

This screen displays the license, to continue you must accept this license by check `I accept the agreement`
and after click on `Next`

![](images/gs_macos_install_step_3.png)

Read this screen information and click on `Next`to continue.

![](images/gs_macos_install_step_4.png)

You can choose another folder if you do not want to install as global package.

::: warning
If you let the default application folder, to launch the oie server, you need to use `sudo` command.
:::

And click on `Next` to start the installation.

![](images/gs_macos_install_step_5.png)

You can display the progress of the installation with this screen

![OIE Installer Summary](images/gs_macos_install_step_6.png "OIE Installer Summary")

This is the final screen of the installer, just click on Finish to close the installer wizard.

Now, open a Terminal and start the OIE server

```shell
sudo /Applications/OpenIntegrationEngine/oieserver
```

> The first time, the server creates the default database. If server is launched correctly, you shoud see. the following lines:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
During the first launch, the server initializes the database. If the server is launched correctly, you should see the following lines:
```

```shell
INFO  2026-01-15 20:07:38.773 [Main Server Thread] com.mirth.connect.server.Mirth: Open Integration Engine 4.5.2 (Built on July 8, 2025) server successfully started.
INFO  2026-01-15 20:07:38.776 [Main Server Thread] com.mirth.connect.server.Mirth: This product was developed by NextGen Healthcare (https://www.nextgen.com) and its contributors (c)2005-2024.
INFO  2026-01-15 20:07:38.776 [Main Server Thread] com.mirth.connect.server.Mirth: Open Integration Engine contributors (c)2025.
INFO  2026-01-15 20:07:38.777 [Main Server Thread] com.mirth.connect.server.Mirth: Running OpenJDK 64-Bit Server VM 17.0.15 on Mac OS X (15.7.3, aarch64), derby, with charset UTF-8.
INFO  2026-01-15 20:07:38.778 [Main Server Thread] com.mirth.connect.server.Mirth: Web server running at http://192.168.1.X:8080/ and https://192.168.1.X:8443/
```

::: tip
Please note these URLs, as we will need them later.
:::

> ### Linux

Reviewer: There is no content under this heading.

## First launch

To verify if the OIE server is available, open your web browser and enter the URL previously noted.

After confirmed to accept self signed certificate, you will see this page

![OIE Server Welcome Page](images/gs_web_browser_step_1.png "OIE Server Welcome Page")

Copy the Administrator Launcher URL

### Ballista

> [Ballista](https://github.com/kayyagari/ballista/releases) is the web-based administration interface for Open Integration Engine based on Tauri.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Ballista](https://github.com/kayyagari/ballista/releases) is an open-source Administrator launcher for Open Integration Engine based on Tauri.
```

### MCAL

> The original Mirth Connect Administrator Launcher works with OIE, you can use it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The original Mirth® Connect Administrator Launcher by NextGen Healthcare works with OIE. Here is how you can use it to launch the OIE Administrator client GUI application.
```

Go to the Mac Os Launcher and search Mirth, you will see this icon.

![MCAL MacOS Launcher](images/gs_launcher_mcal.png "MCAL MacOS Launcher")

If it's the first launch, the left panel with connections is empty

![MCAL Connections](images/gs_mcal_step_1.png "MCAL Connections")

To work better with OIE, choose `Bundled Java 17`

And just click on `Launch` at the top right screen.

You should see a progress bar that will load the files necessary to launch the Open Integration Engine client.

![OIE Login Screen](images/gs_oie_login_step_1.png "OIE Login Screen")

::: warning

> If you use a new instance, the defaults credentials are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you use a new instance, the default credentials are:
```

* login: **admin**
* password: **admin**
:::

After entering your credentials, click on `Login` button.

![](images/gs_oie_login_step_2.png)

After some time, you will see the OIE dashboard.

Now it asks to change the default password

![](images/gs_oie_credential_update_step_1.png)

Fill the information, and don't forget to set the `New Password` ( 2 times)

And click on `Finish`

![](images/gs_oie_dashboard.png)

> It's finished, now you can start to use OIE server,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's finished. Now you can start to use your OIE server.

```
